CirSeq_Human
======
Description
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
CirSeq_Human is a pipeline that generates consensus sequences from tandem 
repeat sequence reads from human genome. It accepts sequence data as gzipped 
FASTQ files (extension .fastq.gz) and requires a reference genome indexed 
for HISAT2 and a genome annotation file indicating splicing junctions. The output 
generated by CirSeq_Human includes the following files:

1. consensus.fastq.gz

	Contains all consensus sequences generated in FASTQ format. Per 
	base quality scores can be converted to estimated error 
	probabilities using the formula: 10**(3*Quality score/-10).

2. consensus_alignment.bam

	Contains all consensus sequences that map to the user-supplied 
	reference sequence. Data is in BAM format.

3. RepeatCopyDistribution.txt

	Contains the counts of reads with 3 - 14 repeat copies.
	This distribution can aid in diagnosis of issues with sequencing
        library preparation. The columns in this file are as follows:
        Repeat copy, counts of reads with the indicated copy.

4. RepeatLengthDistribution.txt

	Contains the counts of reads with repeats from 25 - 99 bases long. 
	This distribution can aid in diagnosis of issues with sequencing 
	library preparation. The columns in this file are as follows: 
	Repeat length (in bases), counts of reads with the indicated 
	length.

5. Length_Copy_Distribution.txt

	Contains the counts of reads with 3-14 repeats from 25 - 99 bases long.
	This distribution can aid in diagnosis of issues with sequencing
        library preparation. The columns in this file are as follows:
        Repeat copy, repeat length (in bases), counts of reads with the 
	indicated copy and length.

6. ProcessingStats.txt

	Summarizes important statistics of the sequencing data processing 
	that may aid in evaluating the quality of sequencing libraries and 
	diagnosing problems with library preparation and sequencing.


System requirements
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following packages are prerequisites for running CirSeq:

1. Python (version 2.7.5)
2. Cython (version 0.19.1)
3. NumPy (version 1.7.1)
4. SciPy (version 0.13.3)
5. HISAT2 (version 2.1.0)

NOTE 1: Cython requires a compiler. For OSX this may require installation 
of Xcode.

NOTE 2: HISAT2 must be in the PATH.


Setup
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Execute the following command in the script directory to compile the 
ConsensusGeneration module:

python setup.py build_ext --inplace


Usage
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.[Script directory]/run.sh [output directory] [indexed reference genome] [core] [Script directory] [splicing info] [gzipped FASTQ file(s)]


